docs/api_docs/sources/team/on-prem-installation.md, before:

# Atlas Team On Premise Instructions

The following document outlines how to setup and deploy a multi-node compute system that runs Atlas Team, including Keycloak backed authentication, to an on premises cluster.

At a high level, the goals are as follows:

* Setup a master node for orchestrating job execution

* Setup a worker node for executing jobs

* Setup a common storage element for the machines to talk to each other

* Setup user accounts

* Have a user interact with the system

## Prerequisites

* A networked file system to use as a shared configuration location for all nodes

* 1 node to be used as a master machine

* 1 or more nodes to be used as worker instances

## 1. Setup the master node

### Installing and setting up Atlas

1. SSH into the machine to be used as the master instance

2. Download the provided files onto the machine (atlas_installer.py and atlas_team.tgz)

3. Create a conda environment (e.g. `conda create -y -n atlas-team python=3.6.8`)

4. Activate the conda environment (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

5. Run the installer: `python atlas_installer.py -dl`

6. Create a directory that will be the same path on each node (e.g. `sudo mkdir -p /atlas_work_dir`)

7. Edit the permissions on this directory to be accessible by your user (e.g. `sudo chmod pippin:pippin /atlas_work_dir`)


### Update the configuration files

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/database.config.yaml**

* Replace the 4 instances of `atlas-ce-tracker` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace the 4 instances of `6379` with `5556`

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/tracker_client_plugins.yaml**

* Replace `atlas-ce-tracker` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace `6379` with `5556`

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/worker_config/execution/default.config.yaml**

* Replace `atlas-ce-tracker` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace `6379` with `5556`

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/worker_config/submission/scheduler.config.yaml**

* Replace `atlas-ce-local-scheduler` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace the *value* in the field `working_dir_root` to be the path to the directory created in *step 6* (e.g. `atlas_work_dir`)

**~/.foundations/config/submission/scheduler.config.yaml**

* Change `working_dir_root` to be `job_store_dir_root`

* Add `working_dir_root: <DIRECTORY_FROM_STEP_6>` to the bottom of the file, making sure to fill in `<DIRECTORY_FROM_STEP_6>`

### Setup the networked file system

1. Backup the Foundations home directory (e.g. `cp -r ~/.foundations ~/.BACK_foundations`)

2. Mount the networked storage to the Foundations home directory (e.g. `sudo mount -t nfs -o proto=tcp,port=2049 <nfs-server-IP>:/foundations_home ~/.foundations`)

3. Copy the contents of the backed-up directory into the newly mounted directory (e.g. `cp -r ~/.BACK_foundations/* ~/.foundations`)

### Starting Atlas Server

1. Set environment variables
  
  * `export HOST_ADDRESS=http://<CURRENT_NODES_IP>:5000/`
  
  * `export REDIS_ADDRESS=<MASTER_NODES_IP>`
  
  * `export NUM_WORKERS=0`, which will mean this master node will not be used for computing jobs. Default is 1 if not provided.
  
2. Run `atlas-server start`

### Log into Atlas' authentication system

Atlas runs a Keycloak authentication server for managing users and login.

Atlas comes with 2 default accounts that should be changed after testing is done.

**Keycloak admin account** (used only for accessing the Keycloak admin console):

Username: `admin`

Password: `admin`

**Atlas test account** (used to log into Atlas from the terminal and Atlas Dashboard):

Username: `test`

Password: `test`

**Usage**:

1. Login to Keycloak via the admin console: `https://<master_node_external_ip>:8443`

2. Change the admin password using the Keycloak console ("Master" realm > Users > View all users > Edit)

3. Update the token lifespan to something reasonable for your organization ("Atlas" realm > Realm Settings > Tokens > Access Token Lifespan)

4. Provision Atlas users ("Atlas" realm > Users > View all users) 

## 2. Setup worker node

1. SSH into the machine to be used as a worker instance

2. Download the provided files onto the machine (atlas_installer.py and atlas_team.tgz)

3. Create a conda environment (e.g. `conda create -y -n atlas-team python=3.6.8`)

4. Activate the conda environment (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

5. Run the installer: `python atlas_installer.py -dl`

6. Create a directory that will be the same path on each node (e.g. `sudo mkdir -p /atlas_work_dir`)

7. Edit the permissions on this directory to be accessible by your user (e.g. `sudo chmod pippin:pippin /atlas_work_dir`)

8. Mount the networked storage to the Foundations home directory (e.g. `sudo mount -t nfs -o proto=tcp,port=2049 <nfs-server-IP>:/foundations_home ~/.foundations`)

9. Set environment variables

    * `export HOST_ADDRESS=http://<CURRENT_NODES_IP>:5000/`
    
    * `export REDIS_ADDRESS=<MASTER_NODES_IP>`
    
    * `export NUM_WORKERS=1`
    
10. Run `atlas-server start`

!!! danger "Workers"
    The `NUM_WORKERS` environment variable dictates how many jobs can be run concurrently on this machine. Feel free to adjust
    how you see fit but be aware that Atlas does not manage RAM or CPU resources for you.
    
!!! note "GPUs"
    To use GPUs, you can use `atlas-server start -g` as documented [here](https://dessa-atlas-community-docs.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/atlas-modes/gpu/).
    
## 3. Setup users client

Once both the master and worker(s) instances are setup to handle job submission, we can now set up users to be able to submit jobs. The user will need to install both Atlas, and have the proper submission configuration file.

The Atlas dashboard can be accessed via: `<master_external_ip>:5555`.

The following steps outline the configurations for a user to have on their client machine in order to submit jobs:

1. (As an admin) Create a user account in the Keycloak admin console (`https://<master_node_external_ip>:8443`) by going to "Atlas" realm > Users > Add User

2. (As an admin) Give the user the provided files (atlas_installer.py and atlas_team.tgz)

3. (As an admin) Give the user the configuration file on the master machine under `~/.foundations/config/submission/scheduler.config.yaml`

4. (As a user) Download the provided files onto the machine (atlas_installer.py and atlas_team.tgz)

5. (As a user) Create a conda environment (e.g. `conda create -y -n atlas-team python=3.6.8`)

6. (As a user) Activate the conda environment (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

7. (As a user) Run `python atlas_installer.py -di` to install the Foundations Python SDK

8. (As a user) Rename the given configuration file from `scheduler.config.yaml` to `team.config.yaml`

9. (As a user) Update the configuration file by changing the `scheduler_url` field from `http://127.0.0.1:5000` to `http://<master_external_ip>:5558`

10. (As a user) Put the configuration file in `~/.foundations/config/submission/team.config.yaml`

## 4. Test job submission

1. Activate the conda environment that you ran the atlas_installer.py in (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

2. Run `foundations init <project_name>` to create a simple project with Foundations' scaffolding

3. Change directory into the newly created project directory

4. Run `foundations submit team . main.py`, where `team` is the first part of the config we just added

5. Head to the Atlas Dashboard (`http://<master_external_ip>:5555`), login, and checkout your job!

Commit message:

Remove CE documentation, restructure doc and update themes.  (#2)
* Remove the term CE from all documentation

* Remove CE usage and restructure documentation

* Change theme

* Update doc

docs/api_docs/sources/team/on-prem-installation.md, after:

# Atlas Multinode On Premise Installtion

The following document outlines how to setup and deploy a multi-node compute system that runs Atlas, including Keycloak backed authentication, to an on premises cluster.

At a high level, the goals are as follows:

* Setup a master node for orchestrating job execution

* Setup a worker node for executing jobs

* Setup a common storage element for the machines to talk to each other

* Setup user accounts

* Have a user interact with the system

This setup is ideal for teams of Machine Learning Engineers who want to share resources and run Deep Learning jobs an on-premise compute cluster. 

## Prerequisites

* A networked file system to use as a shared configuration location for all nodes

* 1 node to be used as a master machine

* 1 or more nodes to be used as worker instances

## Setup the master node

### Installing and setting up Atlas

1. SSH into the machine to be used as the master instance

2. (Download)[https://github.com/dessa-research/atlas/releases] the installer file (atlas_installer.py) on to your machine.

3. Create a conda environment (e.g. `conda create -y -n atlas-team python=3.6.8`)

4. Activate the conda environment (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

5. Run the installer: `python atlas_installer.py -dl`

6. Create a directory that will be the same path on each node (e.g. `sudo mkdir -p /atlas_work_dir`)

7. Edit the permissions on this directory to be accessible by your user (e.g. `sudo chmod pippin:pippin /atlas_work_dir`)


### Update the configuration files

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/database.config.yaml**

* Replace the 4 instances of `atlas-ce-tracker` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace the 4 instances of `6379` with `5556`

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/tracker_client_plugins.yaml**

* Replace `atlas-ce-tracker` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace `6379` with `5556`

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/worker_config/execution/default.config.yaml**

* Replace `atlas-ce-tracker` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace `6379` with `5556`

**~/.foundations/config/local_docker_scheduler/worker_config/submission/scheduler.config.yaml**

* Replace `atlas-ce-local-scheduler` with the Master nodes IP

* Replace the *value* in the field `working_dir_root` to be the path to the directory created in *step 6* (e.g. `atlas_work_dir`)

**~/.foundations/config/submission/scheduler.config.yaml**

* Change `working_dir_root` to be `job_store_dir_root`

* Add `working_dir_root: <DIRECTORY_FROM_STEP_6>` to the bottom of the file, making sure to fill in `<DIRECTORY_FROM_STEP_6>`

### Setup the networked file system

1. Backup the Foundations home directory (e.g. `cp -r ~/.foundations ~/.BACK_foundations`)

2. Mount the networked storage to the Foundations home directory (e.g. `sudo mount -t nfs -o proto=tcp,port=2049 <nfs-server-IP>:/foundations_home ~/.foundations`)

3. Copy the contents of the backed-up directory into the newly mounted directory (e.g. `cp -r ~/.BACK_foundations/* ~/.foundations`)

### Starting Atlas Server

1. Set environment variables
  
  * `export HOST_ADDRESS=http://<CURRENT_NODES_IP>:5000/`
  
  * `export REDIS_ADDRESS=<MASTER_NODES_IP>`
  
  * `export NUM_WORKERS=0`, which will mean this master node will not be used for computing jobs. Default is 1 if not provided.
  
2. Run `atlas-server start`

### Log into Atlas' authentication system

Atlas runs a Keycloak authentication server for managing users and login.

Atlas comes with 2 default accounts that should be changed after testing is done.

**Keycloak admin account** (used only for accessing the Keycloak admin console):

Username: `admin`

Password: `admin`

**Atlas test account** (used to log into Atlas from the terminal and Atlas Dashboard):

Username: `test`

Password: `test`

**Usage**:

1. Login to Keycloak via the admin console: `https://<master_node_external_ip>:8443`

2. Change the admin password using the Keycloak console ("Master" realm > Users > View all users > Edit)

3. Update the token lifespan to something reasonable for your organization ("Atlas" realm > Realm Settings > Tokens > Access Token Lifespan)

4. Provision Atlas users ("Atlas" realm > Users > View all users) 

## Setup worker node

1. SSH into the machine to be used as a worker instance

2. [Download]() the installer file atlas_installer.py to your machine.

3. Create a conda environment (e.g. `conda create -y -n atlas-team python=3.6.8`)

4. Activate the conda environment (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

5. Run the installer: `python atlas_installer.py -dl`

6. Create a directory that will be the same path on each node (e.g. `sudo mkdir -p /atlas_work_dir`)

7. Edit the permissions on this directory to be accessible by your user (e.g. `sudo chmod pippin:pippin /atlas_work_dir`)

8. Mount the networked storage to the Foundations home directory (e.g. `sudo mount -t nfs -o proto=tcp,port=2049 <nfs-server-IP>:/foundations_home ~/.foundations`)

9. Set environment variables

    * `export HOST_ADDRESS=http://<CURRENT_NODES_IP>:5000/`
    
    * `export REDIS_ADDRESS=<MASTER_NODES_IP>`
    
    * `export NUM_WORKERS=1`
    
10. Run `atlas-server start`

!!! danger "Workers"
    The `NUM_WORKERS` environment variable dictates how many jobs can be run concurrently on this machine. Feel free to adjust
    how you see fit but be aware that Atlas does not manage RAM or CPU resources for you.
    
!!! note "GPUs"
    To use GPUs, you can use `atlas-server start -g` as documented [here](https://dessa-atlas-community-docs.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/atlas-modes/gpu/).
    
## Setup users client

Once both the master and worker(s) instances are setup to handle job submission, we can now set up users to be able to submit jobs. The user will need to install both Atlas, and have the proper submission configuration file.

The Atlas dashboard can be accessed via: `<master_external_ip>:5555`.

The following steps outline the configurations for a user to have on their client machine in order to submit jobs:

1. (As an admin) Create a user account in the Keycloak admin console (`https://<master_node_external_ip>:8443`) by going to "Atlas" realm > Users > Add User

2. (As an admin) Give the user the provided installer file (atlas_installer.py) from [here](https://github.com/dessa-research/atlas/releases)

3. (As an admin) Give the user the configuration file on the master machine under `~/.foundations/config/submission/scheduler.config.yaml`

4. (As a user) Download the provided files onto the machine (atlas_installer.py and atlas_team.tgz)

5. (As a user) Create a conda environment (e.g. `conda create -y -n atlas-team python=3.6.8`)

6. (As a user) Activate the conda environment (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

7. (As a user) Run `python atlas_installer.py -di` to install the Foundations Python SDK

8. (As a user) Rename the given configuration file from `scheduler.config.yaml` to `team.config.yaml`

9. (As a user) Update the configuration file by changing the `scheduler_url` field from `http://127.0.0.1:5000` to `http://<master_external_ip>:5558`

10. (As a user) Put the configuration file in `~/.foundations/config/submission/team.config.yaml`

## Test job submission

1. Activate the conda environment that you ran the atlas_installer.py in (e.g. `conda activate atlas-team`)

2. Run `foundations init <project_name>` to create a simple project with Foundations' scaffolding

3. Change directory into the newly created project directory

4. Run `foundations submit team . main.py`, where `team` is the first part of the config we just added

5. Head to the Atlas Dashboard (`http://<master_external_ip>:5555`), login, and checkout your job!
