docs/api_docs/sources/index.md, before:

# Foundations Atlas

<p align="center">
  <img width="25%" src="assets/images/atlas_logo.gif">
</p>

![Platform Support](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platforms-osx%20%7C%20linux%20%7C%20windows-lightgrey "platform")
![Python Support](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-%3E3.6-brightgreen "python")
![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/badge/Downloads-1000+-brightgreen "downloads")
[![Follow Dessa](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/dessa?label=Follow%20Dessa&style=social)](https://twitter.com/dessa)


## What is Atlas?

Atlas was built by our machine learning engineers to dramatically reduce the model development time, from the experimentation workflow to production.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto;">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YnwtO48UYAU?start=2" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe>
</div>

Here are some of the core features:

**Experiment Management & Tracking:**
<br>Tag experiments and easily track hyperparameters, metrics, and artifacts such as images, GIFs, and audio clips in a web-based GUI to track the performance of your models

![GUI](https://static.wixstatic.com/media/29a4f1_c8d1a4f9ab1941ab9ade5e934cf8b149~mv2.png/v1/fill/w_1440,h_1024/tumour.png "Artifact GUI")

**Job queuing & scheduling:** <br>Launch and queue thousands of experiment variations to fully utilize your system resources

![GUI](https://static.wixstatic.com/media/29a4f1_ffb0c04ef79843e79dbf2b1fa33a70c4~mv2.png/v1/fill/w_1440,h_1024/Time%20series%20forecast.png "GUI")

**Collaboration & Bookkeeping:** <br>Keep a journal of thoughts, ideas, and comments on projects

**Reproducibility:** <br>
Maintain an audit trail of every single experiment you run, complete with code and any saved items

## How does Atlas Work?
Atlas consists of the following core modules:

* GUI - A Dockerized web application to view job status for various projects.  
* Foundations SDK & CLI - A programmatic and command-line interfaces for Atlas.
![CODE](assets/images/foundations_code.png)   
* Local Scheduler - A scheduler which is used for job orchestration and management.

You can also check out the [CLI](cli.md) and the [SDK](sdk-reference/SDK.md) reference documentation to find further information.

To learn more about the entirety of the Atlas platform, including Atlas Enterprise Edition, and how we can accommodate your needs, please reach out to us [here](https://dessa.com/contact/).

## License

Copyright (C) DeepLearning Financial Technologies Inc. - All Rights Reserved

Unauthorized copying, distribution, reproduction, publication, use of this library, via any medium is strictly prohibited. Proprietary and confidential.

Commit message:

Remove CE usage and restructure documentation

docs/api_docs/sources/index.md, after:

# Foundations Atlas

<p align="center">
  <img width="25%" src="assets/images/atlas_logo.gif">
</p>

![Platform Support](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platforms-osx%20%7C%20linux%20%7C%20windows-lightgrey "platform")
![Python Support](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-%3E3.6-brightgreen "python")
![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/badge/Downloads-1000+-brightgreen "downloads")
[![Follow Dessa](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/dessa?label=Follow%20Dessa&style=social)](https://twitter.com/dessa)


## Atlas Documentation 

Atlas is a flexible Machine Learning platform that consists of a Python SDK, CLI, GUI & Scheduler to help Machine Learning Engineering teams dramatically reduce the model development time & reduce effort in managing infrastructure.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto;">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YnwtO48UYAU?start=2" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe>
</div>

Here are some of the core features:

**Experiment Management & Tracking:**
<br>Tag experiments and easily track hyperparameters, metrics, and artifacts such as images, GIFs, and audio clips in a web-based GUI to track the performance of your models

![GUI](https://static.wixstatic.com/media/29a4f1_c8d1a4f9ab1941ab9ade5e934cf8b149~mv2.png/v1/fill/w_1440,h_1024/tumour.png "Artifact GUI")

**Job queuing & scheduling:** <br>Launch and queue thousands of experiment variations to fully utilize your system resources

![GUI](https://static.wixstatic.com/media/29a4f1_ffb0c04ef79843e79dbf2b1fa33a70c4~mv2.png/v1/fill/w_1440,h_1024/Time%20series%20forecast.png "GUI")

**Collaboration & Bookkeeping:** <br>Keep a journal of thoughts, ideas, and comments on projects

**Reproducibility:** <br>
Maintain an audit trail of every single experiment you run, complete with code and any saved items

## How does Atlas Work?
Atlas consists of the following core modules:

* GUI - A Dockerized web application to view job status for various projects.  
* Foundations SDK & CLI - A programmatic and command-line interfaces for Atlas.
![CODE](assets/images/foundations_code.png)   
* Local Scheduler - A scheduler which is used for job orchestration and management.

You can also check out the [CLI](cli.md) and the [SDK](sdk-reference/SDK.md) reference documentation to find further information.

## Join the community 

Want to contribute to Atlas? or just want to get in touch with Atlas users and Dessa Deep Learning Engineers? Join our community Slack [here](https://join.slack.com/t/dessa-community/shared_invite/enQtNzY5ODkxOTc3OTkwLTk4MTg5NmNkOTQ5OWVjNjk2YzY0OWJlNDkwNDlhY2NmNTQzNmRmYjkxNzc2N2JiOTYxZGVkMmFiMjRhYThiYzM). 

Prefer discussing over e-mail? Send us a message [here](https://dessa.com/contact/).

## License

We ❤️ open source, Atlas is licensed using the Apache 2.0 License. To contribute to Atlas, get started (here)[TODO ADD LINK TO ISSUES]
